REYNOLDS GEOSPATIAL LLC

TIM REYNOLDS

4121 S. Saltese Lake Road

Greenacres, WA 99016
Cell: 509 768-3914

Email: TimReynolds100@mac.com

Qualifications for Enterprise Application Design, Development and Deployment

I have 28+ years of ESRI GIS facility conversion and application solution experience in the Utility Industry with over 38+ years of total experience creating award-winning Enterprise Level Solutions of exceptional value for some of the ...

World’s largest Enterprises: 
	General Motors (largest company in the world at the time ... AI Expert Systems)
	Electronic Data Systems, 
	GMAC Finance

And Critical Research and Infrastructure Enterprises:
	University of Utah (Center of Excellence for Micro Analysis and Reaction Chemistry)
	Avista Utilities (Comprehensive suite of Geospatial apps like Outage Management)

I have been fully engaged in Enterprise Level Application Solutions since 1981 as a student and the Technical Director at the Center of Excellence for Micro Analysis and Reaction Chemistry at the University of Utah since 1981 until the present, 42+ years. 


As a Senior Fujitsu Consultant contractor, I have been working on the Avista Utilities account for the GIS CUSTOM and GIS COTS teams as well as Fielded Geospatial applications since July of 2014.  

Since that time we have put in place the ArcGIS Online architecture to deploy Avista's facility maps to mobile phone, web browser, tablet, notebook, and desktop users.  We have developed applications integrating engineering data from PI Coresight showing real-time facility state.  We have deployed applications using real-time Avista/ArcGIS geodatabases showing all of Avista's spatially enabled Gas and Electric facilities.  

We have deployed an application accessing real-time Avista/ABB Service Suite order processing data including offline/online data collection and showing the location of trucks and fielded service orders and supporting their scheduling. We have many other GIS COTS solutions queued up and in flight.  

After Graduating from the University of Utah Cum Laude, I started my career serving the largest corporation in the world at that time as a Knowledge Engineer on the EDS/GM Artificial Intelligence team.  It was our mission to work with the Advanced Engineering Staff at the General Motors Technical Center to bring emerging technology into GM. We did so very successfully implementing several AI Expert Systems. 

At Avista Utilities I have continued architecting industry award-winning solutions delivering exceptional value to Avista.  I have done this consistently and successfully at the team level where the rubber meets the road; where high value architecture design and integration is put to the test, implemented, deployed and maintained on schedule and within budget. 

I have been working with Jeff Burr, my Gartner Relationship Associate, to keep abreast of IT and Utility Industry models, architectures, changes and opportunities (i.e. Case Study: Creating a Valuable IT Architecture in an Agile Development Environment).

As of January 2015 I am a certified "Professional Scrum Master I" allowing me to work effectively with other SCRUM teams, product owners, solution architects, the LESS team for enterprise release coordination, and with production operations and support teams.

I worked on the ATLAS project integrations with GIS COTS architecture; specifically the ABB Service Suite service order processing system including the Mobile code and data deployment system.  I developed the GIS COTS architecture integrations during a week-long integration workshop with other solution architects including CSS, Maximo, Enterprise Integration, AFM/GIS, ABB, and other ATLAS project members.  

The Service Suite Architecture integration Visio diagram I produced was used to document all the integrations with project teams and with the Mobile workforce architecture as well.  It was used to secure an approval from the ETER Technical review and to specify the hardware that has now been fully deployed for all environments. 

We set up up the Oracle databases for the last three environments and the suite of ABB servers for each environment.  All these servers conform to the latest security specifications including service accounts for each server and Active Directory (LDAP) logging and passwords.  

We have integrated with the service order development team allowing them to complete much of their testing even prior to message integrations with CC&B and Maximo.  I received training from ABB in Service Suite Server management and maintenance.  I am also working with TC Technologies to integrate some of their components into our Mobile Viewer application supporting our field workforce.

When it comes to architecture, I have been a major contributor on every team I have been with at Avista since 1994.  During that entire time, I have aggressively pioneered and successfully delivered enterprise application level architectural solutions for Avista/GIS starting with the Regional Dispatch Monitor which blazed the trail for our GIS Outage Management solution.  We followed that up with an entire suite of innovative and ground-breaking ESRI/GIS applications at Avista.  

For converting the Avista Utilities Gas and Electric facility to enable GIS application development, the AFM team received the coveted “SAG” award (Special Achievement in GIS chosen from more than 100,000 organizations for excellence and innovative use of GIS technology). Now that's the caliber of solution architecture I've already helped delivered for Avista and the caliber I expect to continue delivering.  Our gas model, data architecture, data conversion, and geodatabase implementation has stood the test of time; still delivering exceptional value for over more than a decade.

Avista Corp. formerly Washington Water Power (WWP) is a gas and electric utility, with over 357,000 electric and 317,000 gas customers across four western states. I successfully architected, developed, QA tested and deployed Avista’s enterprise wide Gas Facility Data Conversion in four months. I was a member of the Electric Data Conversion Team as well. Using geo-located ESRI Coverages and shape files as primary source data, we delivered a full featured, state-of-the-art ESRI Geodatabase conforming to the ESRI Gas Utility Model (Telvent’s Model). 

I have been a member of the Avista Facilities Management Team (AFM) since 1994 and have been a major contributor for many of their valuable ESRI based Geospatial Solutions, underlying architectures, and database management systems. The AFM team worked closely with Telvent and ESRI to develop a common shared Gas and Electric Model for Utility data conversion and application development. Avista’s electric model varies in that it is more fine-grained allowing a conductor for each A, B, or C phase to enhance Outage Management and switching capabilities. The Gas Model is very similar.

The AFM team has covered virtually every aspect of geodatabase design and implementation. It has exercised this functionality from projection and Orthos to constraints and multi-version views. No effort was spared and no relevant functionality left unturned in our two decade quest to deliver a truly exceptional and full featured suite of GIS applications for Avista.

When we converted our Avista suite of GIS applications from VB to C# we were about 17 members strong with two Microsoft MVP contributors and international outsourcing. During this time I completed the ESRI ArcGIS upgrade of our entire AFM application suite to ArcGIS 10Sp4 and developed the system architectures for our mobile GIS applications.  These applications are all now C# .Net framework 4.0 supported by Microsoft Visual Studio Enterprise Edition with Team tools and TFS source control. We use an Agile Software Development Model with test driven design. Avista’s suite of ESRI GIS applications includes: Outage Management, Gas and Electric Edit, Gas and Electric Design, Gas and Electric Service Orders, Gas and Electric Trouble, Compliance, Engineering Analysis, Map Production, Street Lights, Forestry, Real Estate, Claims, Metering, Mobile Gas and Electric order processing including trouble calls and compliance inspections and reporting, and several SmartGrid technologies (Grid-based Continuous Meter Monitoring, Individualized Energy Delivery with localized controls, and Automated Feeder Switching for instantaneous energy response, notification, and restoration). AFM has integrated in significant ways with most core IT system architectures at Avista.

Executive Summary:

Roles: President of Reynolds GeoSpatial LLC (Consultant, GIS COTS Solution Architect, Senior Geospatial Developer, and SDE Administrator for 14 years), Gas data conversion technical lead, User Group facilitator, Systems Engineer, AFM Infrastructure Architect, Artificial Intelligence Knowledge Engineer, Mentor, GIS Data Conversion, SDE Geodatabase Administration, Oracle, SQL, PLSQL, data access integration, AFM application builds and deployments, server administration, web services, and AFM Mobile applications.

GIS: GIS COTS Solution Architect, ABB Service Suite Integrator, SDE Administration, GIS application development, Visio Spatial model schema generation, ESRI common shared Gas and Electric Model, Spatial networks, weights, and tracing, ArcInfo, ArcMap, ArcCatalog, ArcToolbox, Model Builder, Datasets, Feature Classes, Object Classes, ArcStorm, Coverages, Shape files, AML, and Geospatial Data Health Checks/Analysis/Reporting. SDE versioning, sessions, QA, Posting, and Geodatabase Compression.

Database: Oracle Database 11g/12C, ESRI SDE Geodatabase, ABB Service Suite Operational and Historical databases and SQL, Microsoft SSIS ETL; Oracle to SQL server integrations and SQL. Personal Geodatabase, File Geodatabase, Access Database, Microsoft Sql Server Compact Edition, IBM DB2 Database, SqlPlus, Oracle SQL Developer, Oracle PLSQL Stored Procedures, triggers, custom locking, Oracle DDL and DML, ESRI SDE Geodatabase upgrades, Multi-version views, SDE Administration, SDE service, SdeTable/SdeService and other SDE command line tools, SDE License Manager, SDE License checkout/checkin, ArcMap database access and session versioning, ArcCatalog database administration of SDE connections, datasets and permissions, feature and object classes, SDE coded domains, One-to-One/One-to-Many/Many-to-Many feature relationship tables, Spatial Queries, Expert System Knowledge Bases, etc.

Methodologies: Agile/SCRUM Development Model, Enterprise level application architecture integration diagrams, Test Driven Development, Visio UML Modeling (Sequence Diagrams, Class Diagrams, Use Cases), ESRI common shared Gas and Electric Models, Agile data conversion test scenarios, Object Oriented Analysis, Object Oriented Design, Visio Spatial data model generation/ATL, Entity Relationship Diagrams.

Tools and skills: ArcGIS Enterprise and Online, ArcGIS Survey123, ArcGIS Field app, ABB Service Suite administration, SqlServer database administration and SQL, Microsoft SSIS, Safe Software’s Feature Manipulation Engine (FME is also embedded in ArcInfo data interoperability extension), ESRI Model Builder, ArcCatalog geodatabase administration, ArcMap data access with relationships and joins, ESRI Coverages, shape files, SDE skills listed above, Oracle skills listed above, Unix administration and programming skills, Microsoft server administration and DOS Batch and PowerShell scripts, Beyond Compare (File comparison tool), C# .Net, VB, Python, Visual Studio Enterprise with team tools, TFS, bug tracking, Microsoft Office Applications including MS Project, XML/DOM/XSL transformations, Web Services, WPF services, Visual Studio testing tools, Mainframe Host Components, MS Host Integration Server, IBM WMQ messaging, Visual Age Smalltalk, Park Place Smalltalk, Digitalk Smalltalk, Borne Shell, ADO record sets, COM, Expert Systems (KappaPC, Information Builders, S, Lisp), MVC, CICS transactions, Knowledge Base Design, Knowledge Acquisition, Knowledge Engineering, ASP.NET, IIS setup and administration, TCPIP port and pipe communications, Remote Procedure Calls, GPS card programming interface, Remote user administration (Remote Admin), Remote server administration (MS Remote Desktop), Radia for enterprise-level application deployment, Windows Scripting Host (WMS).

Business Experience and Employment History

2006-Present Reynolds GeoSpatial LLC (Avista Account) Spokane, WA

Senior Fujitsu Consultant contractor, Avista GIS COTS solution architect, Consultant, Senior Geospatial Developer, SDE Administration

AFM Electric Edit and Construction Design Tool: Consulted with end users to prioritize and develop enhancements to the AFM Electric Edit and Construction Design Tools. Developed enhancement to maintain structure flags for attached facility of various types. Using Agile processes and TTD, Visual Studio Enterprise Edition, C#, .Net 4.0, ESRI ArcMap and ArcCatalog.

ARC GIS 10 Service Pack 4 Enterprise Level Upgrade: Technical lead for all enterprise level ESRI ArcGIS and ArcSDE version upgrades 8, 9 and 10 including AFM Mobile upgrades and corresponding Oracle geodatabase upgrades. Consulting with Avista Management and the AFM team, designed, developed, tested, and deployed the enterprise level upgrade of all Avista GIS applications and geodatabases to ArcGis10Sp4. Upgraded the Esri License server to 10Sp4 and the Tadpole Gosync licensing to its 10Sp4 compatible version. Used Agile processes and TDD, Visual Studio Enterprise Edition, C#, .Net 4.0, MS Powershell scripting, Radia remote deployment, SDE Administration and command line utilities, SDE Service, ArcCatalog, Oracle geodatabases, Access personal geodatabases, MS SQL Compact Edition databases, Tadpole Gosync Mobile Solution APIs, Infragistics APIs, Sql Developer, PLSQL, Web Services, WPF communications service, DOS Batch scripts. Updated the .NET framework to 4.0 on all AfM servers. Made all code updates and server installs to upgrade all AFM applications and servers to use Oracle 11.2.0.1.

AFM Mobile Applications: Consulted with end users to prioritize support and enhancement tasks for the AFM Mobile Applications. Improved functionality to better spatially query and locate meters and customers including Tadpole web service changes. Applied various fixes and enhancements identified by the recent conversion from VB to C# and to .NET 4.0. Coded process to geo-locate and report crew truck locations to Central Dispatch by reading the remote device onboard GPS card messages and conveying them to a Web Service. Developed the Web service to read and store this Crew data.

AFM Dispatch/Mobile intercommunication service: Designed and developed a Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF) service to map electric and gas trouble orders from Ventyx Mobile Dispatching application to the AFM Mobile application. An upgrade to Ventyx application required all interfacing applications to conform to their new WPF interface model.

Converted AFM Web Services: Designed, developed, and converted AFM Web services from VB to C# .NET. These services are older style multi-threaded ASP.NET services that require synchronization between threads to avoid deadlocks and other threading issues. First, it required explicitly setting each thread to be apartment threaded and then synchronizing all common variables and code. Significant code refactoring was done as well. By passing an object instead of multiple parameters I was able to encapsulated behavior and actions into that object and greatly simplify the code. I created 128 automated testing tasks to test and validate these web services are function correctly after each code release. This web service is a candidate for a rewrite with the newer .NET technologies. Nevertheless, it is working correctly and effectively now. It required me to upgrade and reconfigure all the AFM IIS servers as well.

Optimization of AFM Outage Management Feeder Locking: This is the scalable feeder locking and outage request synchronization stored procedure I wrote in PLSQL. It is the enabling logic for all Outage Management request processing and has worked exceptionally well for over a decade. Improvements in CPU speed and network speed allowed me to marginally increase its overall performance which can have a bigger impact when processing large Outages. Visual Studio automated testing allowed the running of outage request processing simulations to validate the speed improvements and to insure there were no deadlocks when simultaneously accessed by multiple servers at high rates.

AFM Gas Compliance II for Mobile Devices: Worked with end users to design, develop, and deploy Gas compliance inspection and reporting for all types, not just specific types, of both Gas and Electric trouble processed by field workers.

AFM Gas Compliance I for Mobile Devices: Worked with end users to design, develop, and deploy a new tool for AFM Mobile, a DIMP application, to spatially manage Gas compliance inspection and reporting including exposed pipe incidents with bar holes. This tool queues up compliance data in local Compact Edition SQL tables until a local service can upload them to a web service. Once the data is in the central database, it is processed by the AFM Work Server, AFM Compliance Server, and posted by the AFM QA and Posting server. This development work required coding and integration across all these components.

AFM Gas and Electric Data Conversion for Mobile Devices: Created Oracle SQL one-timers to rename and modify fields in Ventyx staging tables, to create Bar Hole and Gas Inspection/Repair tables, and to map existing AFM compliance data into the new schema.

AFM Gas and Electric Trouble Orders for Mobile Devices: This application was similar to the preceding service order application except it processes Gas or Electric trouble orders resulting in some deeper ties to compliance processing and reporting. There are more types of trouble to process than service order types. It required more editing forms. The repair information takes another route back to an enterprise web service that creates service orders as required and will route this order back to the remote device that reported the trouble so the crew can both identify and complete the trouble work. Otherwise, it will be dispatched to the best matched crew based on location and crew type.

AFM Gas and Electric Service Orders for Mobile Devices: Worked with end users to design, develop, and deploy a new tool for AFM Mobile to field Gas and Electric service orders dispatched to remote crew devices via and Ventyx application called Mobile Application (MA). I wrote an interface service to the MA which sends these orders to the AFM Mobile application. Once there I coded the application to process these orders and locate them to the service points where the work was performed. Some of the data is reported back to the MA while the rest of the data including its

coordinates are stored locally and then sent via a Call Manager service to a Web service that stores them centrally. Once there the data is further processed by a Work Server (where installing or removing services or changes to other facilities are edited into a geodatabase session), Compliance Server, QA Posting server.

Migrated all AFM applications to ESRI Direct Connect Data Access model: Designed, developed, and deployed all AFM/GIS applications using ESRI Direct Connect geodatabase access technology moving them off ESRI’s old SDE Service connection technology. The SDE Service has been retained for limited use in performing upgrades, for special Engineering Group applications, and for the ability to run and test ESRI tools with newer ESRI versions.

OutageManagement Assessor Tool: Work with Central Dispatch users to designed, developed, and deployed an AFM Outage Management Assessor tool. Assessors are first responders when there is significant or wide ranging damage to facilities. These assessors report on specific facility status and trouble incidents which are geo-located to office area and standard crew locations. Then they are presented on the Outage Management screen so they can be dispatched at the proper time to specific crews. This allows dispatchers, crew managers, switching operators, and others to make better response and restoration decisions.

AFM Mobile Data Extraction Process: Helped develop a process for extracting the most of the data used by the AFM/GIS application into Personal Geodatabase (Access) files. This is used by the AFM Mobile application which run the AFM application within an ESRI Map container. This extraction process includes both Gas and Electric datasets including their geometric networks and domain tables. It also required the removal or obfuscation of sensitive data and the data conversion SQL for making these accommodations.

03/2005-03/2006 SDE Administrator for Douglas County, CO Castle Rock, CO

SDE Administration: Received formal ESRI SDE Administrator training. Performed SDE Administration duties including daily quality assurance, reconciliation, and posting of approved facility edits. Worked to validate and correct Water facility feature data. Validated, imported and re-projected geo-located Water facility data. Provided 24/7 on-call support.

1994-2005 EDS Systems Engineer at Avista Utilities

Spokane, WA

Gas Data Conversion: Converted Avista gas facility data from diverse sources including shape files and ESRI ArcInfo coverages for 290,000 gas customers across several states into ESRI’s Spatial Database Engine conforming to the ESRI shared common Gas Utility Model. Used Safe Software’s Feature Manipulation Engine, SQL, PLSQL and VB tools in conjunction with ESRI ArcMap, ArcCatalog, an SDE tools. Used Visio and UML schema generation and EDS System Life Cycle to manage all phases of the project including testing, QA, and reporting.

CICS Transaction System: Coded a COM component middleware solution. It provides programmers with seamless ADO style database access to IBM/DB2 data delivered via CICS transactions. It requires the integration of IBM Cobol Host components, CICS transactions, Microsoft Host Integration Server, IBM WMQ messaging, XML/DOM/XSL transformations, and ADO/XML transformations. It auto-generates all CICS message transformation components using XML/XSL from existing Smalltalk communication messages.

Avista Facilities Management Framework Project: Developed a common hosting framework for all our Avista GIS applications. Each application is implemented as a tool within the framework with its own toolbars and versioned session. Some of these tools are AFM Outage Management, AFM Gas and Electric Edit, AFM Construction Design, AFM Compliance, AFM Engineering Analysis, AFM Map Production, etc. These AFM capabilities represent a 24M investment that has delivered on business process improvements and positioned Avista to take advantage of other highly transformational opportunities like Smart Grid technologies and initiatives.

AFM Outage Server: I invented, designed, developed and deployed a unique kind of client/server solution. It uses Oracle custom locking stored procedures with synchronization and deadlock avoidance mechanisms. It is a core component of our AFM Outage Management System and has delivered an impressive 24/7 uptime of 99.79% since its deployment in 2001. I also developed a monitoring service which automatically restarts any non-responsive server and logs, emails, and pages any errors based on error severity.

AFM Outage Management System: An outage management system for Central Dispatchers replacing their paper based systems. This is an ESRI ArcInfo system with an Oracle geodatabase. It is coded in Visual Basic. This system handles both Gas and Electric outages. It covers both overhead and underground feeders at the phase level enabling a full featured switching model. It automatically rolls up instances to isolating devices and enables dispatchers to make real-time switching actions greatly facilitating the restoration effectiveness of field crews. Both the modeling by conductor phase and my scalable server innovations have truly made this Outage Management Solution one the most reliable and effective in the industry. This is the application for which we received the ESRI Special Achievement Award.

SmartMaps Gas Facility Management: This GIS system was written in Oracle Forms, ArcInfo, and AML. It allowed gas designers to design facility with standardized unit assemblies. I also helped Avista generate its own custom set of Work Management assemblies patterned after IBM’s standard compatible units. These unit assemblies where highly leveraged across several core applications and will be key to Avista’s current implementation project of IBM Maximo.

Regional Dispatch Monitor: This system was developed entirely by me and on my own initiative after Avista electric facility was devastated by a hundred year ice storm event. It is a limited Outage Management System based on current incoming trouble calls geo-located by street segment and house number. It also supported filtering based on trouble call information fields like trouble type, trouble reason, zip code, etc. It was used by Central Dispatchers as a vast improvement to paper based processed until we finished geocoding our electric facilities and built our state-of-the-art AFM Outage Management System. It was also effectively used to replay and analyze the ice storm damage. Among other things, it showed Avista the types of areas that are critical for tree trimming efforts in order to avoid excessive damages in the future. I was given special corporate recognition for this effort and it helped Avista realize the value of geo-located facilities moving these solutions to the fore front and accelerating their pace. It used ESRI MapObjects, ArcInfo, IBM Visual Age Smalltalk, and COM object wrappers.

Work Management System: Work Management Systems are highly complex and very expensive. They cost around 40M and many attempted developments had failed due to the massive number of unit assemblies, standards, and crew work activities to be managed. Fortunately our system was expertly designed by EDS Knowledge Engineers from the EDS Artificial Intelligence Services Group at General Motors. We used the same OOA/OOD skills used on GM’s expert systems. As one of those Knowledge Engineers I helped Avista create and customize a smaller subset of IBM’s vast number of standardized compatible units. We called them Unit Assemblies and Macro Unit Assemblies. This assembly subsystem has been leveraged by many other core Avista applications. That is an extreme amount of trust to be placed in the hands of one Knowledge Engineer but working closely with the business and by making the system highly extensible and updatable we achieved excellent results and this exceptional system has served Avista well and is still in place today. Initially, this system managed Gas, Electric, and Tree Trimming Crews. Now it manages virtually all facility work performed at Avista including trouble orders, inspections, and compliance. I also added a non-spatial Outage Management subsystem which is still used today whenever out GIS system is down for more than 30 minutes which sometime happens when we perform large upgrades to our Outage Management System. It is implemented in Digitalk Smalltalk, Cobol, ADW, CICS Transactions, and DB2 Cobol Host Components.

1988-1994 AI Knowledge Engineer at EDS Artificial Intelligence Services Group (General Motors Tech. Center)

Troy, MI)

Service Request Manager System: Designed an AdHoc query system for NeoData using OOA/OOD.

Supplier Pull Bridge: Developed a GM part ordering application for 20 plants using Visual Works Smalltalk and Informix database.

Warrantee Repair Advisor Expert System: Consulted on design for remote imaging of Cummins Diesel manuals for field mechanics using OOA/OOD methodologies and Toolbook development tools.

Joint Design Assistant Expert System: Worked in tandem with Advanced GM Engineers developing an expert system for automobile joint design using the Kappa PC Expert System Development Environment.

Charlie Expert System: A vibration analysis expert system for assembly line maintenance built using and EDS proprietary expert system tool on a Unix platform.

Unix System Administration: Provided Unix System administration for three Sun Unix networks at the GMAC Headquarters including a training center with 20 Sun Sparc Workstations.

05/30/1981-01/30/1988 Technical Director at University of Utah Research Park Salt Lake City, UT

Lab Computer Network Administration: Designed, developed, and maintained Unix based client server network for the Micro Analysis and Reaction Chemistry Center (MARC) including remote control of lab equipment from classroom and support for their Mobile Mass Spectrometer.

Education:

University of Utah (1988)

B.S. Finance (Cum Laude) (Including courses risk Management, Operations Design/Management, Accounting, and Statistical Analysis)

Training: Professional Scrum Master I certification. ABB Service Suite Integration Workshops including Technical Specifications and Architecture.  ABB Service Suite Server Monitoring and Maintenance. ESRI ArcGIS Systems Administration course.  Microsoft .Net training course, VB/COM application development course, ESRI GIS Developer’s conference, Oracle Developer 2000 Training, EDS Intensive Function Point Analysis Training, Knowledge Engineer Development graduate (EDS Artificial Intelligence Services), EDS Object Oriented Analysis/Design training, EDS System Engineering Development graduate, EDS Quality Management Training, EDS Systems Lifecycle training.

Utility Industry Articles:

Energy Currents Summer 2001, “industry-Standard Open Technology Helps Utility Develop New Integrated IT/Business Processes” http://www.esri.com/industries/gas/business/~/media/files/pdfs/industries/gas/pdfs/enercur-gas-utility.pdf

Energy Currents Fall 2004, “Utility Networks for Avista” http://www.esri.com/industries/electric/solutions_guide/~/media/files/pdfs/library/newsletters/energycurrents/energyfall2004.pdf

Avista Utilities Enterprise GIS 2004 Project Report, “Developing Gas and Electric Tools using GIS” (I will bring this report to the interview)

Avista Smart Grid Demonstration Project http://www.electricenergyonline.com/?page=show_article&mag=75&article=607

